In previous cases or tutorial, we have seen that how we created them, basically gameplay.
So what our gameplay holds is basically it's going to hold all the game components.
So what is the game components are basically I'm considering as a breakout ball game.
So let me show you basically what is our components?
So our components are not very complex things.
Here it is.
These are just some things here.
So let me show you.
So there will be some bricks as I'm showing you, like these are the bricks or what you can do is.
So let us consider these are the some bricks in our game like these.
These are in will be in order always.
And let us consider.
This is the window of our game.
Now there will be one platform.
In our game, which is going to move so which is going to move by user, which is basically left to
right on, not upward down.
It's going to move from left to right.
So let me give one color to each is like these are the red and these are all things that will be green
in color as I'm showing.
And.
Not all these things.
This will be on again.
So these are the same bricks considered as these are in order due to drawing is not in order at all.
But consider these are in order only and this will be the bricks.
So now what will happen when you start going to play?
There is there will be one.
Ball.
You can say this is the ball which is going to move like from here and it will touch this part when
the ball will be touched here.
What happens?
That brick will be disappeared.
That brick will be disappear.
So this is the brick and it will be disappear when it's going to move like that.
And or.
Like this, it will be disappearing.
But remember, all will be remains same.
It will be in the same position.
That ball will be bounced here and it will act like that.
So what are our bouncing conditions are?
These are our bouncing constraints.
Bouncing.
You can see these and this platform also.
But below this platform, there is no bouncing concerns.
So let us code something here, which is basically our coding part.
Now, this is my map generator.
As I told you, I'm going to create map generator later.
But this is the gameplay which I have already configured in the previous tutorial how you can set up.
I told you this first course.
This is for Padel, this is for Ball.
Now after the ball and everything, I need to give one thing, which is when you are going to win a
game.
Did we mention when you win the game, when you are going to win a game, what you are going to do?
Winning game is basically the total number of bricks in that window is zero.
So our condition is I'm going to mention as total bricks or you can give any other variable here.
I'm giving total bricks.
Which is going to be zero.
Greater or less than or equal to zero.
Now.
Let me tell you why it should be less than or equal to zero.
Sometimes that loop I'm going to iterate, it's going to be the minus.
And what is the exact minus thing is less than zero.
So we are going to win that game or user is going to win that game, player is going to win that game
if the total number of breaks in the four loop is depending on your gameplay.
So if it's less than zero, it will not appear on our gameplay window.
But at the back end for the calculation, there is maybe conditions like less than zero, so it will
not give proper winning conditions.
So for such things to avoid anomalies, I'm giving less than zero now play play I already created.
If you closely look here, play.
This is private, which is false.
But at the starting it is false.
But now, after winning everything, it should be always false again.
So why false is a condition of playing after winning game.
False condition should be appear.
It should not be true always after winning game, that window should be freeze and your one or user
one title should be game there.
So for that purpose I'm giving this now let me mention direction.
As I told you, X direction is zero because bold directory should be zero.
It's just like the grid part of grid part of our game.
So it should be zero zero now.
G dot said I'm going to use here.
Which is a very popular method in the n.w.t..
Cologne dot.
Let me mention the only.
I'm giving him the color red.
Then I need to set tone for text, which is basically -- font.
Oh, it's not giving me.
Okay.
On.
I got my turn.
Now in this, I need to mention new one because I'm giving new phone.
And again, I'm mentioning one family serif, which is commonly used and it's open source for one family
then.
Font dot bold and giving mention as bold.
And let me tell you why I'm mentioning bold, because it should be in a bold format.
So the size should be in 30.
I guess that's enough for setting a title.
Now get dot drawstring.
Now that drawstring is basically.
It's going to draw that part, which is basically displaying that part in.
So it's graphics 2D.
There is no need to mention this, all these things because our Java will take care of that drawstrings
and everything.
So just mention this and let me mention as you one.
You want a message that after winning the game and to 60 X coordinate and.
TWA 800.
I think it's enough.
If you're a graphic designer, you will understand what this.
Let me tell you in short, also, you can understood this.
So.
Let me do one thing here.
Let me clear out this part.
Okay.
So let me clear out this part.
So when you are in a map generator, you can.
This is my window.
But in the actual part, what happens?
There are grid lines and each green lines.
So this is a vertical grid lines you can assume, always remember, these are always straight lines
or not.
As I'm drawing always, these are the straight lines.
And there are some horizontal lines also like this in a grid.
So there are many horizontal lengths and each are having some meaningful names.
So this is our X coordinate and this will be our Y coordinate.
So as per our matrix, this is X and this will be the Y in the gameplay.
And what happens?
Actually, there are too many things.
So when I mention this to 16, it means from top to bottom at the number of 260.
And from y coordinate at number of 300 so it will appear something in the middle.
So that's a middle constraint.
You can say 260 to 300 is for X coordinate to 60 and y is 300 is basically like top of some time middles.
So you can assume like that.
Now I need to again mention the color.
For one simple thing, which is basically our score, which I'm going to because you one and your score.
So for that purpose I'm giving color and again I'm putting as a red only.
So now you can do that.
It's giving me the.
That part.
Let me get color, which is basically again your turn and everything.
Now get set.
I need to mention again, same font.
So what you can do is I'm copying this text because I'm going to set that font again, but.
With same font but lesser size.
And what I'm now going to type is basically get drawstring.
Again, I'm going to mention drawstring.
This is not at all like where I'm telling you the graphics to its older method of doing in AWP, which
is a Java swing.
Now it's not required.
Press.
In both.
Do.
You start the game now.
I mentioned you start the game and now I need to mention the coordinates again.
And now I'm moving a little bit downwards, as you can see to 60.
I'm going a little bit downward with 350.
It's enough, I guess.
Okay, so this is the winning condition of my game.
But what will happen if my I lose a game?
So if you remember, I created one thing here, which is basically.
But look, if this is this is over a paddle, which is basically player.
So if you look out this hour, this is 550.
So assume that our location is 550.
The ball location is 550 at paddle.
So it on the paddle.
But below that paddle, it started from 555, 65, 60, then 570.
So what is the losing condition?
When condition is ball goes downward, then that paddle, which is basically if you consider this as
my playing area.
And this is my panel.
If.
This is my ball and ball goes to downward this so this is 550 this top consider as this is 560 it goes
to downwards it's 570.
So if ball.
Like moving from this, this, this and type.
Go to that again, bouncing and going downwards, then this pattern.
That's a losing condition.
So for that purpose, what I'm going to do, I'm now mentioning I mentioned the winning condition.
Winning condition is only one, but no one need to mention when you lose the game, which is basically
condition.
Again ball position.
What position?
Why now?
Why am not mentioning exploration?
X is only a horizontal position and there is no limit for horizontal like in the two constraints.
What can we move from that end to end?
But in the while it's not like that.
It should be a pad alone.
So for ball position.
Why?
Is greater than 570.
If Board Position Y is greater than 70, you are going to lose the game.
So it is basically again false condition.
You cannot play further when it's going to downward.
So play false.
Again.
Each direction you need to mention is zero because it should be a zero.
Then y direction should be again zero, which is basically normalizing the ball position I already mentioned.
So let me mention as y.
Why direction.
Then.
No.
Or I need to mention game over or something.
So for that purpose I need to mention set color methods.
So again, I'm telling G set color is for the setting.
And let me tell you what is the G here.
So if you.
See I created your paint, which is graphics method in a w t and I am again and again mentioning g as
our graphics methods.
So I'm calling that graphics methods which default a w things with color dot red.
Or I need to mention one family also.
So please allow me to copy this text again because I already quoted that part and 30 and.
I need to mention this drawstring again, which is basically printing that string in that console,
but this time not one.
Which is basically game over.
And let me mention as like this.
And like this.
And for this, this is.
Okay, so this is for the game.
Over.
But while your game what you need to mention score also so now I'm what I'm going to do is I am going
to mention score.
Game over.
In this only score.
And I'm going to mention school.
And again, less.
So I guess I made mistakes.
No.
It's basically for iPhone.
So when you're these things are done, you should be mentioned as a score.
And this, which is basically going to print a score, final score of the game over ten.
Or again, gay or straight color, which is basically common thing.
Press enter to restart the game.
So this is again, same thing.
I'm going to call.
No, I need to dispose these things, which is basically when game is not started.
It will catch that, but our system will catch that part of our game will catch some parts here.
So I don't want to work like that.
I need to dispose it.
Lake.
It should not be mentioned again and again.
Game over, game over.
Thing you want, because it's like a storage of memory.
So while working on real platform games, you can see your statistics.
So they are not disposing, they are storing that kind of you can see storage or they are creating other
files, text files to storage, your data.
But considering as of this game what is we need to mention, we mentioned that I'm going to store anything,
so for that purpose I need to dispose it.
Otherwise it will give me errors for this course.
Or it will again and again putting me the you one, you one thing even how this is totally bricks are
going to be zero.
But if it stores that in a cache memory, it will not dispose.
So I need to mention as a dispose here also so this is done part for this void paint in a little part
I'm going to show you what is the key place things I'm going to create key events then key release events.
Also I need to mention with some more things I'm going to create here, which is right and left things
and some ball position things because these are some complex things.
So this is just a drawing, but we are done now.
We need to move to the basic game logic part, how it's going to work.
After that we will create a map generator.
It's very simple program map generator, how we are going to place that generator map.
And one last thing is basically we are going to call it in the main.
All these methods are calling in the main.
So it will help to understand object oriented coding and programming.
Also hope you understand.
Thank you.